Docs: Create add-a-panel.md (#24598)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/panels/add-a-panel.md

+++
title = "Add a panel"
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
identifier = "add-a-panel"
parent = "panels"
weight = 100
draft = "true"
+++

# Add a panel

Panels allow you to show your data in visual form. This topic walks you through the most basic steps to build a panel.

## 1. Add a panel to a dashboard

1. Navigate to the dashboard you want to add a panel to.
1. Click the **Add panel** icon.
   
     ![](/img/docs/panels/add-panel-icon-7-0.png)

1. Click **Add new panel**.

Grafana creates an empty graph panel with your default data source selected.

## 2. Edit panel settings

> While not required, we recommend that you add a helpful title and description to your panel. You can use variables you have defined in either field, but not global variables.

Reviewer: thi
```suggestion
While not required, we recommend that you add a helpful title and description to your panel. You can use template variables you have defined in your dashboard.
```

Author: We don't actually use the term "template variables" anywhere in the UI, and while people like you and Daniel seem to know what they are, I am not confident that anyone else does. The global variables are listed and defined in the Global variables topic. I will add some clarifying links.

"Template" as defined to me (and in the docs) is any text that includes a variable. So "template variable" is not at all clear.

![](/img/docs/panels/panel-settings-7-0.png)

**Panel title -** Text entered in this field is displayed at the top of your panel in the Panel editor and in the dashboard.

> **Description -** Write a description of the panel and the data you are displaying. Pretend you are explaining it to a new user six months from now, when it is no longer fresh in your mind. Future editors (possibly yourself) will thank you.

Reviewer 2: This is optional and shown in a tooltip in upper left corner (an info icon is shown after adding a description). You can use markdown in the description with links.

## 3. Write a query

Each panel needs at least one query to display a visualization. You write queries in the Query tab of the Panel editor. For more information about the Query tab, refer to [Queries]({{< relref "queries.md" >}}).

1. Choose a data source. In the first line of the Query tab, click the drop-down list to see all available data sources. This list includes all data sources you added. Refer to [Add a data source]({{< relref "../features/datasources/add-a-data-source.md" >}}) if you need instructions.
1. Write or construct a query in the query language of your data source. Options will vary. Refer to your specific [data source documentation]({{< relref "../features/datasources/_index.md" >}}) for specific guidelines.

## 4. Choose a visualization type

> In the Visualization section, click a visualization type. Grafana displays a preview of your query with that visualization applied. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Visualization section of the Panel editor options pane, click a visualization type. Grafana displays a preview of your query results with that visualization applied. 
```
